Add initial documentation for the helm-charts-hardened chart (#290)
spiffe/spiffe.io: content/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-about/installation.md

---
title: Installation
short: Installation
description: How to install the SPIRE stack using the SPIRE Helm charts
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 100
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/installation
---

## Non Production Deployment

To do a quick non production install suitable for quick testing in something like minikube:

```
helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n spire-server spire-crds spire-crds \
 --repo https://spiffe.github.io/helm-charts-hardened/

> 

Reviewer: These are very helpful, but maybe we should include a few more parameters like 
```
--set global.spire.namespaces.create=true 
``` 
so the namespaces are correctly created based on our charts

Author: namespaces.create won't really work properly without enabling the recommendations and then disabling the ones that don't apply to a non production deployment.

The example here is to make it as easy as possible to get a workable deployment with as little config/steps as possible to let new users kick the tires. If there are some additional options that fit that use case, we should probably try and make those enabled by default.

---
title: Installation
short: Installation
description: How to install the SPIRE stack using the SPIRE Helm charts
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 100
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/installation
---

> ## Non Production Deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Quick start
```

> To do a quick install suitable for testing in something like minikube:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do a quick install suitable for non production environments such as [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/):
```

```

> helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n spire-server spire-crds spire-crds \

Reviewer 2: Suggest to user `spire` or `spire-system` for the namespace as it will hold more than just the server.

Author: Updated

 --repo https://spiffe.github.io/helm-charts-hardened/

helm upgrade --install -n spire-server spire spire \
 --repo https://spiffe.github.io/helm-charts-hardened/
```

## Production Deployment

> Preparing a production deployment requires a few steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Preparing a production deployment requires a few extra steps.
```

1. Save the following to your-values.yaml, ideally in your git repo.
```yaml
global:
  openshift: false # If running on openshift, set to true
  spire:
    recommendations:
      enabled: true
    namespaces:
      create: true
    ingressControllerType: "" # If not openshift, and want to expose services, set to a supported option [ingress-nginx]
    # Update these
    clusterName: example-cluster
    trustDomain: example.org
spire-server:
  ca_subject:
    # Update these
    country: ARPA
    organization: Example
    common_name: example.org
```

2. If you need a non default storageClass, append the following to the spire-server section and update:
```
  persistence:
    storageClass: your-storage-class
```

3. If your Kubernetes cluster is OpenShift based, use the output of the following command to update the trustDomain setting:
```shell
oc get cm -n openshift-config-managed  console-public -o go-template="{{ .data.consoleURL }}" | \
  sed 's@https://@@; s/^[^.]*\.//'
```

> 4. Find any additional values you might want to set based on the documentation on this site or the [examples](https://github.com/spiffe/helm-charts-hardened/tree/main/examples)
> 
> In particular, consider using an external database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Find any additional values you might want to set based on the documentation on this site or the [examples](https://github.com/spiffe/helm-charts-hardened/tree/main/examples). In particular, consider using an external database.
```

> 6. Deploy

Author: ```suggestion
5. Deploy
```
